So hello guys, in this
particular video, let's create
a very simple project.
So here I have created
a task MD file.
You will get these files.
So we have couple of tasks here.
You can read the task
that what we have to do.
And let's try to implement
all of these tasks and try
to code a server.
Okay, so again, boilerplate code.
So let's have an index js file
and let's have npm any typhoon y
so that we have, we have
the package or JSON file, right?
So inside the package JSON.
So what I'll do is I'll just say npm
install at the rate types/ node.
So let's wait for it.
And also let's configure
the start script to say
node hyphen hyphen Var.
And that is index js.
Cool stuff.
Right now inside my index js.
So what, what is my task?
Right, let's go on to task.
So my task is very simple.
So we have these four routes
that we have to make.
Routes or path is same thing.
So if there is a get request
on slash, we have to send
a simple hello message.
If there is a get request
on slash, contact us.
We have to do this.
If there's a post request
on slash tweet we have to do this.
If there's a get request
on this thing, we have to do this.
And also we need to store all
the incoming requests with
the timestamps to a log TXT file.
Wow, amazing.
So const HTTP equals request require
and let's have the node
HTTP module, you know, imported.
Then you can create a server using
this HTTP create server function
which takes a callback function.
So you have access to request,
you have response, and that's it.
Finally, server.
Hey server, can you please listen
on port number 8,000?
And once you do that, once you are
successfully able to bind yourself
to that port, give me a console
log message saying that that HTTP
server, is running on port 8000.
Cool stuff, right?
So let's just do an npm start.
So you can see that my
server is running.
So first things first, right?
So if you go on to the tasks,
okay, so first is that you
have to make a get route.
Send a simple hello message
from the server.
Okay, so what I can do is I can
say, hey, const the method, okay?
So I can just say request
method, okay?
And you can have the path,
okay, that is request path.
So I'm just getting request, URL.
Sorry.
So these are the two variables.
So let's have A switch case
on the path.
Okay.
And on the path, let's have
the first one that is case.
Okay.
Case slash.
In this particular scenario,
what do we have to do?
So we have to send a simple
hello message from the server.
Pretty simple, right?
So you can just say
response dot, write head.
Okay?
Write head head that is 200
dot and you can just
end it saying hello.
Okay.
You can just send it saying hello
from the server.
Okay.
And even you can add an emoji
of saying, you know, hello
or something like that.
So yeah, emojis are cool, right?
So let's have an emoji.
So my first task is done.
Okay.
And it's always good
to verify along with.
So what I can do is I can just have
my Thunder client here and let's try
to make a get request on slash.
Is my server working as expected?
Yes.
So if even if I do multiple times.
Yeah, my, my server is
working as expected, right?
Hello from the server.
So guys, we have successfully
done our task one, right?
So this was your task
one which is now done.
So what I will do is I'll
just, I'll just strike it off.
So you can just strike
it off like this, okay.
Or even.
That's fine.
Let, let it be here.
Now what is my second task?
Second task is that you have to
make a get thing on slash contact us
that sends your email
and contact number to the user.
Now guys, tell me one thing.
Actually if you see if I even make
a post request on this, I am
still getting hello from server.
Do you think that is a good thing?
Because the document has mentioned
that if it is a get request only
then you have to send the request.
But even on post it is working.
So that means our server has a bug.
So this is a bug, right?
So that means what I have to do is
I have to first make a switch case
on the method, okay?
That if it is the get request then
I have to handle it differently.
And if it is a let's say post
request and I have to handle
them differently and so on.
Right?
So right now I just have to get, get
I can just you know handle the gate
and this switch should be here.
So that means now what you're
doing is if it's a get
request and the path is this only
then this should work.
Now see on the post you
are not getting anything.
You are not getting anything
because the server is
not able to do anything.
So that means if.
Okay, so let me just
do a return here.
So that means if you somehow reach
to this line in this
particular scenario, you are lost.
So response dot
write head saying 404.
Okay?
And you can just say dot n
saying, you are lost man.
Okay, you are lost.
Now see.
So now if I send the request,
you are lost because
post request is not there.
But if I make a get request, I
should get now it is good, right?
So you have a switch case first
of all on the method, then
you are making this path.
Second is contact us.
Right?
So pretty simple, right?
You inside the get only we need
a case for slash contact us.
And in this particular
scenario we will just send our
email and phone number.
So let's say that,
sure, you can contact me.
So my email is you know, Piyush
garg.dev@gmail.com and phone.
Okay, phone.
You can just send like +
919-999-9999 something like this.
So that means if I make
a now get request onto slash
contact us and send.
So yeah, I'm getting the data fine.
But if I do a post request
on this, yeah, it should
say, you are lost, man.
Nice.
Right, Makes sense.
Then if you make a post request
to slash tweet, it's kind of, you
know, that I want to do something.
It's basically like, you know,
user is trying to create a tweet.
We don't have a DB right
now, but okay, let's try
to mimic this thing.
Okay, so that means now
I need a new case.
So let's have a break to this one.
So I have a new case of post.
So all the post request
should be handled here.
So now again you have to switch
on the path and the path that we
are talking about is slash tweet.
So if there's a post request on tweet
in this particular scenario,
you can do a fake DB operation.
So let you can just assume that
we have a lot of code to do
that DB operation and stuff.
But right now what I want
to do is, I want.
I'll just say 2,01 because
when you do a post on something
and that thing is created something
like the user post a request
on slash tweet, which
internally created some resource.
So 201 is the correct status quo.
And you can say like your
tweet, your tweet was created
something like this.
Okay, so we are just mimicking it.
So that means if I now make
a request, okay, so if I now make
a request to slash tweet,
get Request will give me a 404.
But this time post
request is going to work.
That is to go one created.
Nice.
See, get request is not working.
Now even it is saying that, hey,
you have to make a get request also
for slash tweet, which basically
sends all the tweet from the db.
Okay, so back to the script.
Okay, so back to the script file.
So inside this get
we have the switch.
So here what I can do is I can just
copy this particular thing,
paste it again here, and this time
we can name it to slash tweet.
So that means now what I am doing is.
Okay, so now what we are doing is we
are creating a slash tweet also.
See, now we have two parts.
Slash tweet.
The only difference is this is for
the post and this is for the get.
So here we can just say 200,
and I can just send hey, tweet one
tweet to something like this.
So tweet one and new line.
So in future we will actually
get it from the database.
But right now we don't have a db,
so I can just send
all the tweets like this.
So making a get request
on slash tweet, you are getting
the tweet one, tweet two.
But if you are make a post request
on this right, then
you are creating a new one.
Nice.
Right, so you can see our
server is going very good.
Right now there is a final
challenge remaining that you need
to log all the incoming requests
with the timestamp and log it
into the log.txt file.
So that means you have
to create a lock.
So let's say that my log looks
something like this, that
there was an incoming request.
So let's have the date first.
Okay, so I can just say,
I'll just have the date dot.
You can have.
Now you can just say dot to string.
Let's just say date.
Now then what you have
to do is like you will just say,
hey, on which kind
of method the request was coming?
Let's say.
So it was coming on this
particular method.
And what was the path.
Great.
What was the path that user
was trying to access?
So let's say this is how
you constructed a log.
So every time there is a request,
you have to create this log Txt
file, you have to append it.
So to work with files, do
you remember that FS
module that we covered?
So you can just import that node fs
module and I can just say fs.append
to a file in a Synchronous way.
That's fine because every request
that will come user has
to first make an entry, right?
So we are just appending
to a file that is log Txt,
what is the data that is this log.
And I want to write it as a UTF8.
Okay?
That is UTF8 format.
Now what will happen is anytime
you get a request, let's make
a post request to slash tweet.
Okay, A log is created.
A log is created.
Now.
Why this dollar is coming here?
Just one second.
This dollar should not be here.
And also please guys, don't
forget to add a new line.
Okay, so first Got it.
Then let's make a get
request to slash tweet.
Okay, working.
Let's make a get request
to this thing and let's try
to make a request to contact us.
Which is also good.
And let's try to make a post
request on this thing.
Oh, you are lost.
Now if I check my log txt, you
are having all the logs that
at what time what kind
of requests one were coming, right?
So this is like your server logs.
So if you're monitoring your
server you can actually see that
when the requests were coming.
And if someone is trying to hack
into something, someone is
trying something different.
So yeah, you have all
the information, right.
So this is pretty cool.
So this is how you can actually
create a logger and logs
all the incoming requests.
So when you go into the production
you have this distributed
logging system.
So all the incoming requests are,
are logged so that they
are kept for the future reference
if something goes bad.
Let's say your server is down
so you have some data that
why the server crashed.
Oh, there was a this kind
of request which could be there.
Right.
So this helps in debugging the stuff.
Okay, so this is how we have
created a very simple server
which now supports.
Okay, let me just show you
the full code which supports
two methods, get and post.
And you have couple of routes
and get and you have
a couple of routes in post.